Course Syllabus
Portland Community College | 12000 SW 49th Ave, Portland, OR 97219 | (971) 722-6111
Course Information
Course Title:  Introduction to Business
Meeting: Monday, 1pm - 2:40pm, Sylvania TCB 216
Course Number:  BA 101
CRN:  40067
Term: Fall
Credit Hours:  4
Prerequisites:  WR 115, RD 115 and MTH 20 or equivalent placement test scores
Instructor Information
Instructor:  Shaw Millerman
Email:  shaw.millerman@pcc.edu
Phone: 503-551-5179
Office Hours:  Wednesday @ 1 (in-person and Google Meet) or by appointment via Zoom or Google 
Office Location:  Sylvania Campus, SS 201
Email is the best way to reach me. If you have an urgent need, call or text is preferable. If your question or comment would be of interest to other students, please post it to the Course Lobby. 

Response from Instructor
Emails sent on weekdays will be answered within 24 hours. Emails sent over the weekend or holiday will be answered the following scheduled school day. 

Course Description
Introduction to Business is designed to expose the interested student to many functions of modern business. The course shows the student how these functions exist in a changing society and the type of decisions which must be made within that environment. The course is also designed to expose the student to the multitude of career fields in the areas of business. The importance of business in the modern society is also stressed throughout the course.


Topics such as business environment, management, organization, marketing, finance, accounting, and data processing are discussed in an introductory manner. Credits will be acceptable as required and/or elective for Portland Community College's Business Administration and Business Technology Certificate or Degree Programs.

This course is not designed to provide for entry-level employment or job upgrading except to provide background knowledge of business.

Intended Outcomes for the Course
Demonstrate an understanding of the forces that shape the business and economic structure of the United States of America.

Demonstrate an understanding of the major functions of business including Management, Accounting/Finance, Marketing, Investments, and Information Technology.

Explain why business ethics is an integral part of every business organization.

Additional Competencies & Skills
Identify and describe the economics of business including how macroeconomic issues affect business.
Understand the business environment and how our multi-cultural society has implications for business.
Describe the global business environment.
Analyze and apply social responsibility and business ethics in the workplace.
Detail the forms of business organization and differentiate between sole proprietorships, partnerships and corporations.
Understand entrepreneurship, small business and franchising.
Apply understanding of management in the business world.
Identify and apply marketing strategy.
Understand the finance and accounting area of business, describing the impact of computers on the decision framework.
Demonstrate an understanding of the securities markets and ability to read stock market quotations.
Identify the rules in the legal and tax environment and describe the concept of risk and insurance with its application to the business world.
For more information, please go to the BA 101 Course Content and Outcome Guide for this course.

Instructional Materials
Textbook
Collins, Karen. Exploring Business V5.0. Flatworld, 2020. 

Business & Entrepreneurship Style Guide
Students are expected to format all communications (emails, presentations, written assignments) as outlined in the Business & Entrepreneurship Department Style Guide, which is prominently linked inside the online course.  The use of the style guide will be a factor in grades on assignments.  The style guide is available in the Course Lobby drop-down menu in D2L.  The style guide represents the communication skills you will need to be successful in the workforce.  

If you have any questions about the style guide, please let me know – I am here to help!

Technical Expectations
The technical requirements for online courses include:

Technology Requirements for taking an online course at PCC
A recommended Internet Browser installed
Ability to use Google Drive and Google Docs
Webcam and/or microphone for online appointments
Please visit What Apps and Tools Can I Use? for a complete list of apps and tool for PCC students.

Accessibility
This course uses digital courseware, software, or texts that may cause barriers for those using assistive, or accessibility-related technologies. If you encounter barriers, please contact the Access Tech Team at access-tech-group@pcc.edu or by calling 971-722-TECH (971-722-8324).

Instructional Approach
This course is arranged chronologically and employs a modular design. Each week, students should complete all assignments listed in that week's lesson module. These modules are available by clicking "Content" on the course navigation bar.

Due dates for each week's assignments will be listed within the module itself. Assignments within the modules may direct students to use many of the tools contained in Brightspace, including Assignments and Discussions. These tools will be accessible from within the weekly content modules as well as from the course navigation bar in the Activities drop-down menu.

Weekly Structure
Weekly announcements will include timely reminders or important information. In each weekly module, you will find all the content needed to complete that week’s activities and assignments. While assignments may vary, you will find that each module has a similar and repeated structure which includes:

Weekly attendance and participation are required in the classroom
Reading of the textbook chapter(s) assigned for the week 
An overview of the learning objectives and activities for the week
A lesson & practice page with insights from your instructor and opportunities to practice your knowledge of weekly concepts
A reading quiz 
A video or audio podcast sharing insights from actual business people that build on the weekly topic
Any other graded assignments for the week (see below for detailed descriptions of assignment types)
Attendance & Participation
You are expected to enter the course at least three times each week to check announcements and email, study the learning materials, complete assignments, and work on projects. For each credit hour, you should expect to spend at least 3 hours each week during a 10-week course. You can expect to spend at least 12 hours per week on this 4-credit course.

Given the hybrid nature of this course, which combines in-person/remote and online elements, it's important that every student attend class ready for our weekly discussions on the designated chapter. Your active involvement in class discussions and professional collaboration in team activities are absolutely essential and count towards your final grade. 

First Week Participation
During the first week of the term, instructors must:

Identify students who are enrolled but not engaged in a class. These are referred to as "No Show" students, and will be dropped from the class as per PCC's G302 Grading Guidelines policy.
In order to avoid being dropped as a "No Show" student, you must complete the following activities by their deadlines: 
Complete the Course Intro Quiz by 11:59 p.m. on Wednesday of the first week
Course Communication Guidelines
The following guide will assist you in communicating with members of this course and outlines course-specific communication standards.

You are expected to respond to faculty or classmates’ e-mails, announcements, and other modes of communication within 24 hours (unless otherwise stated). Be sure to check the Announcements in D2L Brightspace each time you log into the class.
If you have questions regarding the content of this course, first check the Course Lobby discussion forum to see if your question has been answered. If not, post your question anonymously to the forum for a timely response. If the question is about accommodation or grades, please email your instructor. 
If you have questions about D2L Brightspace, Google Docs, or other technology-related questions, please contact the Student Help Desk.
In the event of an emergency, please call or email your instructor as soon as possible.
The college has an expectation that all communication between instructor and student will be professional and appropriate at all times and that both parties will practice constructive communication behaviors that serve to improve the learning experience and constructively resolve disagreements or misunderstandings. Communication behaviors that involve inappropriate language, yelling, threats, interruptions, or other behaviors which are abusive and destructive to the communication process are inappropriate, and the instructor will not respond to that type of communication.
Discussion Forums
This course is designed with a discussion forum called the Course Lobby. Within the Course Lobby, you will find two discussion topics:

Ask Questions! Ask questions about the course materials. Include a descriptive topic, i.e. Chapter 2 textbook reading, in your post. If you know the answer, post a reply! All posts can be made anonymously.
Build Community! This is a fun and friendly place for you to connect with your classmates, share ideas, and post resources. 
Graded Assignments & Feedback
Class Attendance & Participation 
Regular class attendance is a crucial aspect of our course, and active participation in discussions and team activities is expected to maximize your learning experience. I understand that life can be unpredictable, so you're allowed to miss one class during the term. However, please be sure to notify your instructor in advance if you need to do so, without prior notification to the instructor will be marked absent. 

Reading Quizzes 
These quizzes are designed to reinforce what you have learned from your reading. After you complete your reading each week and complete the Lesson & Practice pages, you should be ready to take the quiz. Quizzes are a combination of multiple-choice, true/false/ and fill-in-the-blank questions randomly chosen from a larger question pool. Each quiz is untimed and you have two attempts. Each attempt will contain a different set of questions. Quizzes are worth 20 pts each.

Weekly Business Activities 
During the term, there is a Business Activity assignment each week to help you directly apply your learning. Business Activities are worth 40 pts each. 

Connecting the Dots' Reflection 
This culminating assignment, due during finals week, allows you to reflect on a teamwork and communication scenario while also connecting broader themes from the entire term. The 'Connecting the Dots' Reflection is worth 100 pts.

Feedback 
As a general rule, feedback for assignments turned in by the due date will be posted within a week of the original due date. To view feedback, click on Grades from the navigation bar. Click on View Graded Rubric for additional feedback. Keep an eye out for links that direct you to audio or video feedback. 

To view feedback, click on Grades from the navigation bar. Click on View Graded Rubric for additional feedback. For more information, visit Viewing instructor feedback for Assignments & Discussions.

View of grades area where a link to "View Graded Rubric" is located to the right of the grade received for each item in Grades.

Grading Criteria
I understand the instructions for assignments and discussions will be using vocabulary that is new to you, and it is understandable if the instructions seem confusing or unclear. Please read over all assignments and discussion prompts in advance and reach out if you have any questions or if you want to confirm you understand them correctly. Clarifying questions will help you avoid deductions in your grades. Learn more about the Grading Guidelines at PCC. 

Grading Scheme
Student scores and current course grades can be viewed by going to Grades in D2L Brightspace. The grading criteria for this course is based on a points grading scheme, and you will be assessed a letter grade based on a 0-100% scale at the end of the term. 

However, the overall purpose of this course is practice and exploration. We are less interested in having you turn in perfect work than we are in you having the freedom to grow and apply new knowledge without worrying so much about overall points. Although each assignment has an assigned point value, assignments will be assessed using a competency model with three levels: Meets Expectations, Needs Improvement, or Did Not Meet Expectations. Assignments that meet expectations receive full points. Assignments that need improvement typically receive 75% of available points.

Grading Scheme
Assessment	# in Course	Points each	Points of course grade
First Week Participation Activities	2 (Course Info Quiz and Introduce Yourself! Discussion)	These activities are required by the first-week deadline (5 bonus points each)	Bonus 10 points
Class Attendance & Participation	10	20	200
Reading Quizzes	10	20	200
Business Activities	10	40	400
Final Project Presentation	1	100	100
Total 			900
Grading Scale
Grading Scale
Letter Grade	Points
A	800 - 900+
B	700 - 799
C	600 - 699
D	500 - 599
F	< 499
Business and Entrepreneurship Equitable Grading
The Business & Entrepreneurship Program at PCC has adopted an equitable grading framework to support a growth mindset and evaluate our students based on their knowledge while improving student access to learning materials and coursework.  As your instructor, I am committed to supporting your learning and helping you succeed in this course. In this course, equity grading will be applied as follows:

Late work will be accepted for one week past the original due date, with the exception of your final assignment.
All course modules and assignments are available at the start of the term, with the possible exception of weekly instructor videos. Some activities, such as discussions, assignments, and quizzes inside a module may have limited availability for submission but will be listed in the module, and descriptions should be available.
For assignments turned in on time, you will have the opportunity to resubmit during the one-week grace period for a higher grade, as desired.
Here to Help! - Late Work Policy
It is a priority for me as an instructor that students can successfully apply their learning to their assignments. While deadlines are important and should be adhered to whenever reasonable, I understand that we are all living with different circumstances. In addition to the late work specifications detailed above, if you need help from me to understand course material, expectations, and/or navigating deadlines, please reach out to me. I am here to help you be successful in this course!

PCC Policies
Visit the PCC Policies page for information on:

Academic Integrity Policy
Accessibility Statement & Resources
Drop/Withdraw Deadlines
Grading Policy
Internet Etiquette
PCC Payment Policy
PCC Registration Policy
Sanctuary College
Student Rights and Responsibilities
Title IX/Non-Discrimination
Accommodations and Services
PCC is committed to supporting all students. If you plan to use academic accommodations for this course, please contact your instructor as soon as possible to discuss your needs. Accommodations are not retroactive; they begin when the instructor receives the “Approved Academic Accommodations” letter from you (submitted in person for courses on campus; via email for Distance Learning courses). To request academic accommodations for a disability, please contact an Accessible Education & Disability Resources counselor on any PCC campus. Office locations, phone numbers, and additional information may be located on the Accessible Education & Disability Resources website.

Academic Integrity (cheating, plagiarism, or sharing work)
You are required to complete this course in accordance with the Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook. Cheating includes any attempt to defraud, deceive, or mislead the instructor in arriving at an honest grade assessment and may include copying answers from other students or using unauthorized notes during tests. Plagiarism is a particular form of cheating that involves presenting as one's own the ideas or work of another and may include using other people's ideas without proper attribution and submitting another person's work as one's own. Dishonest activities such as cheating on exams and submitting or copying work done by others will result in disciplinary actions, including but not limited to receiving a failing grade. For further information, review the institution's Academic Integrity Policy.

Flexibility Statement
The instructor reserves the right to modify course content and/or substitute assignments and learning activities in response to institutional, weather, or class situations.

BA 101 - End of Course Syllabus